# Kameleon Software Suite #

Kameleon is a software suite that is being developed at the CCMC to address the difficulty in analyzing and disseminating the varying output formats of space weather model data.  Through the employment of a comprehensive data format standardization methodology, Kameleon allows heterogeneous model output to be stored uniformly in a common science data format.  The converted files contain both the original model output as well as additional metadata elements to create platform independent and self-descriptive data files.  To facilitate model data dissemination, data reuse, and code reuse – the Kameleon access and interpolation library provides direct access to both the model data as well as the embedded metadata.

# Access and Interpolation Library Overview #

After the original model output has been converted into a standardized science data format with accompanying metadata elements, access to the data can be achieved by utilizing the Kameleon Access and Interpolation Library.  The library provides a user friendly interface to the standardized data, offering both spatial and temporal interpolation functionality along with several metadata extraction routines.  By using the Kameleon library, the underlying format and storage structure is hidden from the end user masking the complexity of the native interface associated with the implemented science data format.  At the same time, users still have the option to use the native science data format access tools and routines providing even greater programming flexibility.  The routines provided in the Kameleon access/interpolation library can be called from any C compatible programming language, allowing users to analyze model data using their preferred application.  Integrating the Kameleon library into an existing application can be done in an efficient manner alleviating the need to become familiar with the internal storage layout and structure of the data files.  The standardized model output used in conjunction with the Kameleon access/interpolation library, facilitates both data sharing as well as software reuse, by allowing the integration of new model data analysis capabilities into existing or new software applications.